Linux Kernel Vulnerabilities:
Case Study
Kernel exploits are an excellent
way to escalate privileges,
but success depends on matching
not only the target’s kernel version
but also the operating system flavor,
such as Debian or Redhat for example.
Similar to our Windows examples,
this section of the module
will not be reproducible
on your dedicated client.
We will start with gathering
information about our target
by inspecting the issue file.
As discussed earlier in the module,
this file contains a message
or system identification to be printed
before the login prompt on Linux machines.
We can enumerate the kernel
version and system architecture
with standard system commands:
Our target system appears to
be running Ubuntu 16.04.3 LTS,
with generic 4.8.0 kernel,
on the x86_64 architecture.
Armed with this information,
we can use searchsploit
to find kernel exploits
matching the target version.
The second last exploit seems
to match the kernel version
that our target is running.
Compiling C/C++ Code on Linux
We’ll use gcc on Linux to
compile our exploit.
Keep in mind that when
compiling code,
we must match the architecture
of our target.
This is especially important in
situations where the target machine
does not have a compiler and
we are forced to compile the exploit
on our attacking machine or on
a VM meant to replicate the target OS.
Fortunately, the target machine has
a working compiler we can use.
Let’s copy the exploit to the target,
and compile it.
After compiling the exploit,
we can run it,
and use whoami to check
our privilege level.
The output shows that our
privileges were successfully
elevated from a standard
user to root.
Very nice!